The backline of Evra, Rio, Vidic, and Brown was consistent with all of them playing 32 games or more in the Premier League. The width was crucial as Evra and Brown would move forward when necessary, Evra was the more flamboyant one who would bomb forward and Brown would slide into the midfield three (while attacking). Vidic played as a more aggressive centre-back, winning back possession with strength and inch-perfect tackles, while Ferdinand was calm, composed, and read the game well. He was comfortable on the ball, launching them for counter-attacks.
The midfield pivot of Scholes and Carrick sat deeper during important matches, Carrick would screen the defence while Scholes was the deep-lying playmaker, playing a bit further up the pitch than Carrick. Scholes from that position would dictate the games using his passing range and technical ability.
The right flank was mostly occupied by Ronaldo, but when the team needed defensive solidity, Tevez moved out of the 11 with Ronaldo going up top, and Ji Sung Park/Hargreaves coming in for the RMF role, they contributed to a disciplined midfield. As said earlier United did not press aggressively, the team relied on individual ability to win the ball back and break a pass while reading the game.
Giggs would start on the left but slowly would move in for Evra to make overlapping runs. Whilst the trio of Ronaldo-Rooney-Tevez would obliterate defences, they were versatile and could play anywhere up top, this would make it difficult for the opposition to mark them.
Rooney and Tevez had a high work rate meaning they would drop back to collect the ball and then drive forward, this pulled the opposition backline higher, allowing space for United to attack. The trio contributed to 71% of United's goals that season with Tevez and Rooney doing their best, Ronaldo was doing what he has been doing for the past 15 years.

This was one of the best United sides to have graced the Premier League and Europe, led by Sir Alex, the show they put on was an absolute masterclass for the audience. Tactically aware and brilliant in every area of the field, this was how United dominated games.