"Pep’s almost got a sickness for football" ~ Xavi 

It all started from the appointment of one man Josep Guardiola. Under his reign at Barca , they produced one of the most elegant styles of play the world had ever witnessed . The foundation of the masterpiece is positional play , this is used by Guardiola in every team he manages. Pep doesnt believe in numbers and formations , his players have been trained to use their head before every pass they make, before every action they take .

Fullbacks became wingers , wingers were strikers and strikers dropped down as CAMs , this created overload of players in the vicinity of the ball , which then improved scoring chances, and vigorous counter-pressing in case the ball was intercepted. This overload resulted in one of the most skillfull player waiting on the other flank to go 1-on-1 against the opposition's weakest.

In this iconic Barca team every player had a specific role , Valdes played as a sweeper keeper , Puyol and Pique were the ball playing center backs , Alves was the attacking fullback and Abidal played as the third CB. Busquets was the pivot , Xavi dictated the game's tempo he was the orchestrator ,Iniesta played as the attacking midfieder carrying the ball forward ,Pedro played as the winger who sneaked in behind the defence ,  OH ! and Messi's greatness is difficult to put into words.

Barcelona's midfield was like Mercedes in F1 , their ball retention , intelligence and creativity unmatched , this exceptional level of talent in the center was enough for the wingers to exploit the oppposition fullbacks. Now imagine adding Messi to that midfield as a false Nine , defenders could do nothing but just stand and watch La Pulga dribble past them AND SCORE.

Barcelona's tactics were simple , high pressing from the wingers and striker made it difficult for the opposition to pass , which forces them to make a mistake , once the opposition drop back its all about quick and constant movement, short, one-touch passing, intelligent positioning and making the correct runs at the right time. One of Barca's greatest ability was ball retention ,keeping it close made it difficult for the opposition to break a pass.

> I hate tiki-taka. I always will. I want nothing more to do with tiki-taka. Tiki-taka is a load of ****, a made-up term. It means passing the ball for the sake of passing, with no real aim or aggression - nothing. I will not allow my brilliant players to fall for all that rubbish

All this made them the best team of a generation. Forca Barca