Mourinho's Inter had a clear idea, dominating your opponents doesn't just mean playing aggressive attacking football or having the most possession, it can also be achieved by smart defending, breaking your opposition's passes, and not letting them create chances to score a goal. Let's talk about a team known for its defensive dominance, let's talk about the Nerazzurri, let's talk about Jose Mourinho's Inter Milan.

Jose Mourinho set up his team in a 4-2-3-1 formation, Júlio César was the man between the sticks, with club captain Javier Zanetti occupying the left-back spot (also played in the midfield when required), he stayed back being the more defensive fullback, Maicon was an attacking fullback occupying the right flank and every time he bombed forward Cambiasso would cover for him, Maicon excelled in whipping in those low driven crosses for the attackers to pounce upon. The center-back pairing of Lucio and Samuel was rock solid. They were more traditional CBs playing mostly short passes to their midfielders instead of launching those long balls but this lack of ball progression was dealt with by the pivot of Cambiasso and Motta/Stankovic. Cambiasso was urged to play the balls very quickly so that the attackers could take it to the goalkeeper before the opponents could regroup defensively. The other midfielder in the pivot would be either Stankovic who was more offensive and aided Sneijder or Thiago Motta who was capable of playing in various other midfield positions due to his tactical intelligence and versatility. Once Cambiasso launched the ball forward Sneijder would then use his ability to find Milito or Eto'o(who would drift in as Maicon moved forward). Mourinho's side made no urgency in gaining back the ball as they would sit deep and wait for an opportunity to counter-attack clinically. Sneijder would also drop back in midfield to overload it and win the ball back which proved to be instrumental in big games, he would dictate the games playing as a CAM. Samuel Eto'o and Pandev played crucial roles in their position, they played as defensive wingers(apart from drifting in when fullbacks joined the attack), they fit into Mourinho's system of play really well at the expense of their attacking prowess. At times even Cristian Chivu would be deployed as a defensive left midfielder. For Diego Milito, I have no words, scored two past Bayern to seal the third UCL title for the Nerazzurri.

***“It’s not important how we play. If you have a Ferrari and I have a small car, to beat you in a race I have to break your wheel or put sugar in your tank.” - The Special One***

Under Mourinho, Inter controlled the games defensively, they were arguably one of the best Italian sides. With the Scudetto, Copa Italia, and UCL in the bag, Inter became the first Italian team to complete the treble. Offense wins you matches and defense wins you titles.